# Spatiotemporal cortical dynamics at different timescales: Connectome spectral representations of EEG and fMRI
## Lab Rotation, Brain Simulation Section, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin

Brain dynamics play out over several orders of magnitude of timescales. Current recording methods each yield different information about these dynamics. To understand better the interplay of network dynamics on different temporal scales, in this project, structural data is used to link the representation of temporally aligned functional data from different modalities. Between EEG and fMRI, there is a tradeoff between spatial and temporal resolution: EEG is known to have a high temporal and low spatial resolution, whereas fMRI is more spatially but less temporally precise. \
Based on previous work by Glomb et al. (2020), a comparison of the connectome spectral representation of EEG and fMRI dynamics should be conducted. Within the framework of graph signal processing, brain activity can be represented by activation patterns of building blocks. The building blocks are themselves co-activation patterns of brain regions and are called ‘network harmonics’. They are the eigenvectors of the Laplacian of a structural connectivity matrix. The structural connectivity matrix is based on white matter anatomical connections between brain regions. Thus, the representation of brain activity over time as activation of network harmonics based on structural connectivity is called connectome spectral representation.
The dataset ‘Hybrid Brain Model data’ (https://osf.io/mndt8/) that will be used stems from Schirner et al. (2018). It consists of temporally aligned and preprocessed fMRI and EEG data over 20 minutes of brain activity and parcellations based on structural MRI data for N = 15 participants. Preprocessing of the EEG signal included projection of the data onto the cortical surface. The authors used the Desikan- Killiany atlas for the parcellation into 68 cortical brain regions. The parcellation was applied to generate the structural connectivity matrices and the region-averaged signals of fMRI and EEG. \
This lab rotation aims to transform all functional data into the space spanned by the network harmonics. The gain will be that spatiotemporal cortical dynamics of brain activity on different timescales from EEG and fMRI can be compared in the same space. Hence, relationships between the contribution of network harmonics to the data from the different modalities can be discovered. It is hypothesized that there are one-to-one correspondences between recurring activity patterns in fMRI and EEG such that, for example, activation of harmonic i in fMRI is associated with activation of harmonics j and k in EEG.

The current state of the analysis is specified in analysis/analysis.py.

## References
Glomb, K., Rué Queralt, J., Pascucci, D., Defferrard, M., Tourbier, S., Carboni, M., Rubega, M., Vulliémoz, S., Plomp, G., and Hagmann, P. (2020). Connectome spectral analysis to track EEG task dynamics on a subsecond scale. Neuroimage, 221, 117137. \
Schirner, M., McIntosh, A. R., Jirsa, V., Deco, G., & Ritter, P. (2018). Inferring multi-scale neural mechanisms with brain network modelling. eLife, 7, e28927.